Amazon SEO here's a tutorial for
beginners have you ever heard of the
advertising triopoly it's people talking
about Google ads Facebook ads and Amazon
ads Amazon is a Powerhouse that most
marketers take for granted especially
when it comes down to SEO so let's go
over how you can optimize your Amazon
listings so they can rank higher an
Amazon search but before we begin you
need to understand the two main
components of Amazon SEO the first
component is keywords are you targeting
the right keywords the ones people are
typing in and when they type those
keywords in where they expect to see
your product if not those are the wrong
keywords the second thing that you need
to understand is sales velocity the more
you sell and if you're selling at a
higher percentage than your competition
and at a faster rate you will rank
higher after all Amazon gets a cut from
every cell you make so why wouldn't they
want to rank the listings higher that
outperform the competition because it
makes them more money
so let's go over your listing in detail
and the changes you need to make to rank
higher when it comes down to SEO so tip
number one optimizing your title
typically you'll have to include a few
things in your title for them to perform
well they are brand model type and
number product type size and quantity
power output requirements color and
design now these may not be all
applicable to your title but a lot of
those elements maybe and to get more
specific here are title optimization
recommendations directly from Amazon for
a few different categories TV
if you're selling TVs use brand model
number plus product type and then color
and pack size for video games use Brand
Plus model number if unclear what
product is then product type and then
platform for betting use Brand Plus line
slash pattern plus thread count plus
material plus size plus product type and
color
for bath towels Brand Plus line slash
pattern plus material plus product type
plus quantity and color tableware Brand
Plus pattern plus product type and ml
individual pieces of tableware Brand
Plus pattern plus size Plus Part type
now I can keep going over all these
types but Amazon provides them to you so
I'm not going to bore you with all of
them but as you can see the more
specific you get the better off you'll
do and use Amazon's examples to help you
out because they're telling you what
performs the best because they want your
listing to perform the best so they make
more money see Amazon SEO is very
different than Google SEO people click
on a Google result that's SEO driven
it's not like Google makes more money
unless you have AdSense on your website
and they don't really say hey if you
have AdSense let's rank you higher they
do what's best for users with Amazon SEO
just like their paid ads if people click
on them and they buy they make more
money so they want to help you rank
higher because it helps them make more
money
tip number two optimize your description
you don't want to rewrite your product
description right if you just do that
it's not going to do well a well-crafted
product description though is one that
does not just merely mimic what was
written in the product title but it
expands upon it in detail and makes the
benefits the focal point of the text you
can also tell a story if you want to
take it to another level feel free to
tell a story of how exactly that product
came into existence and any real life
testimonials could also be helpful here
too you also want to make it readable
customers on Amazon typically hate
reading large chunks of text so make
sure you have a product description
that's concise as possible no one wants
to read two three sentences or five
sentences when it could have just been
done in one
tip number three bullets no one wants to
read a lot of text when it comes to
bullets bullets are a simple way to get
your main message across and here are
some tips when crafting books first
outline it's your job as an entrepreneur
or a marketer to make sure bullet points
are written differently from your title
and description focus on your best
product attributes within your bullets
focus on one benefit per bullet point
that way they're easier to read and be
aware of Amazon limits Amazon product
listings have a limit of 200 characters
per bullet now this doesn't mean that
you have to use 200 characters short and
to the point wins here
tip four take amazing high quality
photos
and one photo isn't enough the more
details your photos have and the higher
quality they are the better off you are
taking studio quality photos is
preferred over just taking photos with
your phone a good example of details in
photos is let's say you're selling a
food related product one of the photos
should be the nutrition information and
you bet that nutrition information
better be clear and easy to read
make sure you also take multiple photos
with different angles so that way people
can see the product in different
viewpoints
tip 5 use popular keywords you can use
tools like uber says to come up with
popular keywords go into Uber says and
type in any keyword related to what
you're selling for example let's say if
I was selling a product to digital
marketing like a book I'll go to Uber
says and type in the word digital
marketing in the left hand navigation I
want to click on keyword ideas and this
is where you can find a lot of different
keywords I also on that page I want you
to click on the different tabs like
related questions and prepositions this
is where you'll find a lot more keywords
many of them are based on what people
are interested in this will give you
ideas on what to focus on and what not
to focus on tip six focus on reviews as
I mentioned earlier sales velocity is a
big part of your Amazon rankings and
people buy based on reviews you don't
want to cheat the system and create fake
reviews but the more good reviews and
real reviews you get the better off you
are so when people leave a review read
them take their feedback and if they're
negative improve your product so that
way you improve the reviews over time
this is how you continually get better
and better reviews it's you take
people's feedback and you actually fix
what they're complaining about now if
you want more reviews early on you can
always give a discount on your product
to get more purchases which helps you
get more reviews of your product if you
need help with your Amazon SEO or Amazon
paid ad management check out my Ad
Agency NP digital where we help
companies with this if you just enjoy
this like it share it tell people about
it thank you for being here and thank
you for watching